Review of
Scientific Instruments
ARTICLE
pubs.aip.org/aip/rsi
patterns, depending on the network depth and width, but we have
observed diminishing returns in our models for patches larger than
80 × 80 pixels, particularly when considering the increased memory
demands and corresponding increased training time.
For our training set, we generate 100 000 noisy–clean pairs of
80 × 80-pixel patches. The patches are randomly selected from the
training set images of the BSD300 image set, with an equal number
of patches used for each image. For the models in this work, we select
500 unique patches from each image, so no patch is repeated. In
order to ensure that the patches are distributed approximately evenly
across each image, we generate the location of each patch using a
random Poisson process such that no point is repeated.
Before adding the noise, the patch is first rescaled by ran-
domly subtracting up to 0.15 from the image, cutting off values less
than 0, and renormalizing. This first data augmentation step allows
these sub-images to more accurately represent the range of val-
ues encountered in our data, whose distributions are biased toward
lower intensities. We further augment the training set by randomly
transforming ∼4% of the patches to a randomly chosen constant
value to ensure that the network is exposed to regions of uniform
value. Noise is then added to each patch based on the noise estimated
from the data, which for our primary model consists of Poisson noise
generated by scaling the maximum per-pixel counts of each patch
to λ ∈[5, 50], AWGN between 0% and 10%, and the σ = 1 Gaus-
sian blur. The amount of each noise is randomly selected for each
patch, and we use a unique random seed for the amounts of noise
and the applied distribution to ensure that there is no overlap or
unintended preferential repetition, and for consistency in training.
Each noisy–clean pair is saved in memory for reference. An example
from the training set is shown in Fig. 4, displaying the original full
image and the resulting noisy and clean patches. Our test set is gen-
erated similarly, but each image of the BSD300 test set is only used
once, at full resolution instead of in patches, and for one specified
level of noise which we set as λ = 10 and 5% AWGN.
FIG. 4. An example of our training set generation, showing the original image, a
50 × 50 pixel patch, and the same patch after adding noise.
During training, our model is given mini-batches of multiple
images to denoise simultaneously at each step. Training with mini-
batches allows the model to optimize over a wider set of inputs at
each step, usually increasing the stability of the training between
steps because of the variance between the training patches, although
large mini-batches can reduce the generalizability of the model.
Mini-batch training tends to both reduce the time required to reach
acceptable results and improve convergence during the later stages
of training because of the increased stability. We train our models
using the Adam26 optimizer (an adaptive optimization scheme) with
an initial learning rate of 1 × 10−4 and mini-batches of 50 patches of
80 × 80 pixels at each iteration, which are randomly selected from
the set of noisy images of the training set. We train the models for 61
epochs, where one epoch consists of one full cycle over all images in
the training set. At epoch 30, we reduce the learning rate by a factor
of 10 to more quickly converge. We test our model’s performance by
recording the average RMS error over both the training and test sets
every epoch. Initializing our model in PyTorch and training with
CUDA using an NVIDIA RTX A6000 GPU with 48 GB of mem-
ory, it can take up to 18 h to train a model. Training with patches of
50 × 50 pixels reduces the training time to less than 9 h and can still
produce good results.
C. Results on synthetic noise
Figure 5 displays plots of the model performance on both the
training and testing sets of images as a function of training epoch
for three different models trained on different levels of Poisson
noise. The top of Fig. 5 shows the root-mean-squared error (RMSE)
between the denoised image and the clean image, averaged over the
FIG. 5. Plots of model performance in RMSE (top) and PSNR (bottom) on the
training and testing sets during training for noise models with different Poisson λ.
Different models are denoted by different colors, with the solid lines representing
the test set performance and the dashed lines representing the training set. After
61 training epochs, the best model with λ ∈[5, 50] produces an average RMSE
of 0.0493 on the training set and 0.0567 on the testing set, with the corresponding
PSNR of 26.14 and 24.93, respectively.
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 95, 063508 (2024); doi: 10.1063/5.0207005
95, 063508-6
© Author(s) 2024
 14 October 2024 14:30:48
