Review of
Scientific Instruments
ARTICLE
pubs.aip.org/aip/rsi
FIG. 7. Comparison of denoising results on a simulated noisy image. The clean transmission map is shown in (a), simulated under conditions similar to the data image of
9 (a). Noise is added to the image following the 5% AWGN, λ = 10 Poisson noise, and σ = 1 Gaussian blur noise model, and the noisy image is shown in (b), with the
difference from the clean image shown in (c). Results of denoising models trained on different ranges of Poisson noise are shown in (d)–(f), with the difference from the clean
image shown beneath in (g)–(i). The lower Poisson noise model of (d) leaves some hallucinated features and achieves a lower PSNR compared to the results from (e) and
(f), which achieve a better definition of smooth features and are comparable in PSNR.
uses the same λ = 10 noise model as the castle image at the top of
Fig. 6. Figure 7(c) shows the difference between the noisy image and
the clean image. Figures 7(d)–7(f) are denoising results using mod-
els trained with different levels of Poisson noise as noted, with λ ∈
[20, 100], λ ∈[10, 100], and λ ∈[5, 50], respectively, to see the effect
of training. The residual images of Figs. 7(g)–7(i) illustrate how well
the denoisers remove noise. The model used in Figs. 7(d) and 7(g)
was trained with the least amount of Poisson noise, and while the
noise is significantly reduced, the results suffer from increased hal-
lucinations of fine structure throughout. The denoising models of
Figs. 7(e) and 7(f) both include λ = 10 Poisson noise in training as
was used on the synthetic image, and they perform equally well on
the broad features as seen in the residual images, with only some
slight variation in small-scale features. These results give us confi-
dence that our trained denoisers can be effectively applied to real
data to improve analysis.
D. Comparison with other denoising methods
To show that our new machine learning denoiser is preferable,
we compare the results with other methods of image processing
commonly used in the field. Figure 8 shows the denoising results
from some of these methods. Figures 8(b) and 8(c) apply Gaus-
sian blurs of the listed σ = 5 and σ = 10, respectively, to the noisy
image. It is apparent that blurring reduces the noise, as indicated
by the increased PSNR, but it also destroys real small-scale features
like the edges of the shocked foam and the opaque tracer layer, and
reduces the contrast. At σ = 5, the blurred image is still susceptible
to longer-range fluctuations, but reducing those fluctuations by fur-
ther blurring to σ = 10 destroys real features throughout the image,
like the perturbations in the tracer layer as seen in the inset. The
median filter replaces the value of each pixel with the median of a
surrounding neighborhood of pixels, and the 9 × 9 pixel window
median filter in Fig. 8(d) produced the best PSNR for this filter type.
The median filter reduces the noise but tends to create macro-pixels
and leaves similar long-range fluctuations as the smaller Gaussian
blur. The Butterworth filter convolves a frequency-dependent gain
curve with the image in frequency space. The Butterworth filter in
Fig. 8(e) used was of order n = 1 and width f = 37 and produced the
best PSNR of this filter type.
Of all the filters shown in Fig. 8, our neural network denoiser
outperforms them all on the noise model combining Poisson noise,
additive noise, and a Gaussian blur. Our denoiser significantly
reduces the short- and long-range perturbations from the noise
while retaining contrast and sharpening real features. In addition,
the other filters all require hyperparameters that must be tuned for
each image, and the ideal tuning cannot be known for real data
images. In contrast, our denoiser is trained to remove a specific type
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 95, 063508 (2024); doi: 10.1063/5.0207005
95, 063508-8
© Author(s) 2024
 14 October 2024 14:30:48
