Review of
Scientific Instruments
ARTICLE
pubs.aip.org/aip/rsi
entire image, and the bottom shows the corresponding average peak
signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR). PSNR is a common metric in image
reconstruction and is log-scale inverse of the RMSE calculated as
PSNR = 20 log 10(Imax/RMSE), where Imax is the maximum value
of the image. Because of the large number of images in the train-
ing set, for all models, we see a rapid decrease in the average RMSE
in the first stages of training, before leveling off and approaching a
limiting value. The error on the training sets expectedly decreases as
the level of noise decreases, but note that the test set has a consistent
noise separate from the training set, with Poisson λ = 10 and additive
noise of 5%. The model with the highest average PSNR on the test set
is the model trained with Poisson noise of λ ∈[5, 50], reaching 24.93,
and we use this as our preferred model. The model trained with λ
∈[10, 100] is very close, while the model with λ ∈[20, 100] is notice-
ably lower. The models that perform best on the test set contain the
same λ = 10 Poisson noise in training.
The results of our trained denoiser model are illustrated in
more detail for the castle image of the BSD300 test set in Fig. 6 with
two applied noise models, Poisson λ = 10 and λ = 5, which we label
noise model 1 and noise model 2, respectively. Our trained denoiser
significantly reduces the noise for both noisy images, with denois-
ing performance on model 1 noise reaching a significantly higher
PSNR (≈26.01) than for the higher-noise model 2 noise (≈24.53),
which is to be expected. The additive residuals between the noisy
and denoised images at the right show that the model identifies a
fairly continuous pattern of noise across the entire image, with shifts
due to the changing intensity values on the image. The denoiser also
brings out many sharper features as seen around sharp edges in the
image, particularly in the enlarged insets, demonstrating its effec-
tiveness at deblurring as well. The consistency of structure in the
residuals between different regions of the image suggests that the
models are primarily removing noise as opposed to real features.
Despite being trained to remove noise of the same type used in these
noisy test images, the model cannot fully recover all information,
although the fidelity of the denoised images is greatly improved.
Figure 7 shows NN denoising results on synthetic transmission
images from simulations of the experiment under similar perturba-
tion conditions and at a similar time as the early time image of Fig. 2.
The clean image of Fig. 7(a) shows a lot of structure that is recogniz-
able from the data image, like the shocked opaque layer toward the
center moving to the right of the image with visible perturbations
to the left. Other important features are the reduced transmission
in the shocked region trailing the thin layer on the left and also in
the curved shocked region on the right. The noisy image Fig. 7(b)
FIG. 6. Demonstrating the denoising performance for the castle test image at the two Poisson noise levels and the corresponding trained neural network models. Both noise
models incorporate an AWGN of 5% and a Gaussian blur of σ = 1, with a Poisson noise of λ = 10 for noise model 1 (top) and λ = 5 for noise model 2 (bottom). The peak
signal-to-noise ratio and root-mean-square error (RMSE) are shown for the noisy and denoised images, showing that our denoising models significantly increase the fidelity
of the image. The additive residuals between the noisy and denoised images are displayed at right, and they display the scale and intensity of the noise inferred by our model.
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 95, 063508 (2024); doi: 10.1063/5.0207005
95, 063508-7
© Author(s) 2024
 14 October 2024 14:30:48
