Review of
Scientific Instruments
ARTICLE
pubs.aip.org/aip/rsi
are subject to a variety of noise in both form and amount, and this
noise usually falls outside the range of existing NN models, so we
must create a new model that is applicable to our data. We adapt
our neural network architecture from existing machine learning
methods, and we train our denoiser model using an approxima-
tion of the NIF Hardened Gated X-ray Detector (HGXD)9 camera
noise observed in our experiments. Our denoiser is tailored to the
thin-layer MShock experiments but would also apply to many other
experiments using these cameras under similar conditions and with
similar noise10–15 and, in principle, could be extended to any type of
noise.
At the basic level, our neural network denoiser takes as input
a noisy image and returns two residual arrays representing additive
and multiplicative contributions, which return the denoised image
when applied to the input image. The general process for creating
the desired denoiser is as follows: (1) estimate the noise distribution
of the target images; (2) apply this noise distribution to a set of clean
images to generate training and testing image sets; (3) train the net-
work using the noisy and clean image pairs; (4) calculate the average
denoising error on the testing set; and (5) apply to the data. We work
through these steps for our new denoiser in the remainder of this
paper.
This paper is organized as follows: Sec. II describes the MShock
experiments and the corresponding images we are interested in
denoising and shows our estimate of the noise in this dataset. In
Sec. III, we introduce the neural network denoiser, describe the
network architecture and training procedure, show the results on
the synthetic noise images using different noise models, and com-
pare with other common denoising methods. In Sec. IV, we apply
the trained denoising models to some data images and discuss
the results. Section V concludes the paper and provides notes for
potential future directions of model improvement.
II. HED X-RAY IMAGES AND NOISE
The x-ray images we are concerned with in this paper come
from the thin-layer MShock1 series of HED hydrodynamics exper-
iments performed at the NIF to study the RM and RT instabilities.
An illustration of the physics package is shown in Fig. 1 and consists
of an initially solid shock tube target, which is driven by irradiating
gold Hohlraums on both ends of the target with lasers. The shock
tube consists of an inner beryllium (Be) tube lining with 2.25 mm
inner diameter and 3.05 mm outer diameter in the region of the
viewing window, and only 190 μm of Be outside of the window, with
a fluorinated plastic casing making up the rest of the outer diameter.
The interior of the targets contains a plastic disk of polyamide-imide
(PAI) with an interior strip of iodine-doped plastic (CHI) as the
opaque tracer layer for x-ray imaging. One side of the PAI/CHI disk
is machined to have a large-scale sinusoidal mode, which is either
smooth or with an additional amount of machined roughness. The
plastic layer is surrounded on both sides by low-density (100 mg/cc)
CH foam. The goal of these experiments is to observe the evolution
of hydrodynamic instabilities from the perturbed surface via x-ray
images of the opacity.
The thin-layer MShock campaign obtained many x-ray images
of the system evolution under different initial conditions using the
same camera and backlighter configuration. The x-ray source is
a Big-Area Backlighter16 (BABL) laser-driven x-ray source, which
is mounted flat against the target, ∼5 mm from the center of the
shock tube, as shown in Fig. 1. The camera for these experiments
is the two-strip NIF HGXD,9 which allows us to take two 200 ps
time-integrated images per shot at two different delays. The HGXD
is very similar in design to the Gated X-ray Detector (GXD)17,18
cameras, and they share much of the same noise concerns. Both
the GXD and HGXD convert incident x rays into electrons at the
front of the detector using gold-coated strips. The electron signal
is then amplified through a microchannel plate (MCP) array, and
the electrons are then converted back into photons at a phosphor
layer. These photons travel through the fiber-optic faceplate and
to a CCD (GXD) or film (HGXD). These cameras allow us to take
high-resolution images with time gating on the order of hundreds of
picoseconds, but each step of the HGXD imaging process adds noise
and distortion, which affect our ability to quantitatively determine
the true transmission through the object being imaged and which
alter the inference of material density. The primary sources of noise
for many of these experiments, which are common to both cameras,
are likely the x-ray conversion at the gold cathode, the electron signal
amplification by the MCP, and the electron conversion at the phos-
phor layer, coupled with the short time gating. Because the GXD
and HGXD have many similar components, the noise between the
two imagers is roughly comparable.
Over the short time-scales during which we image these
systems—usually ∼200 ps—the variation of photon statistics is
noticeable, and Poisson noise is observed on the images. Barring
the effect of other physical processes, Poisson noise is directly tied
to the illumination of an image, so regions of greater transmission
should experience lower relative noise than regions with reduced
transmission. The x-ray illumination of the laser-driven backlighter
also contributes to the noise distribution on the images. Although
the lasers are generally tiled in such a way as to produce a some-
what uniform irradiation pattern,16 nonuniform illumination from
FIG. 1. Illustration of the NIF MShock thin-layer geometry. The target is made up
of a plastic shock tube (cross section shown at center), filled with a low-density CH
foam, and a solid plastic disk, onto which a perturbation profile is machined for RM-
RT instability study. In the center of the plastic disk is a tracer strip of iodine-doped
plastic (CHI) to increase the opacity for measurement. The shock tube is driven
with variable laser drives by irradiating the Au Hohlraums at the top and bottom.
The backlighter is flat against the back of the target and is driven separately using
tiled lasers. The interior of the tube is beryllium, which is more transparent to the
x-ray signal, with a plastic casing around the tube at the left and right. Closer to the
tracer layer, the plastic casing ends and tube is entirely beryllium, allowing better
imaging of the tracer.
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 95, 063508 (2024); doi: 10.1063/5.0207005
95, 063508-2
© Author(s) 2024
 14 October 2024 14:30:48
