Review of
Scientific Instruments
ARTICLE
pubs.aip.org/aip/rsi
FIG. 11. Example of the neural network denoiser on an image from NIF shot N150604-002 from the shock–shear campaign that used a similar camera and backlighter
configuration.
input image to a model has significantly different noise than what
the model was trained on and suggest that our estimate of the noise
from the data for the other two models is at least fairly representative
of the real noise.
In addition to the specific set of MShock hydrodynamics exper-
iments, our denoiser model also works well on x-ray images from
other experiments without requiring retraining another model. In
Fig. 11, we show the result of our denoising model on an image
from the LANL’s shock–shear campaign at the NIF.12,27,28 The
shock–shear campaign was very similar to the MShock campaign,
being its predecessor, and used a similar camera and backlighter
configuration. While there are likely more aspects of the system that
need to be considered, the denoiser performs fairly well at remov-
ing noise-like features. This result demonstrates the utility of our
denoiser and shows that this method can apply well to any type of
image so long as the model is trained on a reasonable approximation
of the detector noise.
V. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we have presented a new, neural network-based
method for denoising x-ray images from HED hydrodynamics and
ICF experiments. Focusing on data from the NIF MShock campaign,
we estimated the noise in our images to resemble a combination of
additive and Poisson noises with a Gaussian blur. We modeled our
denoising architecture after previously successful models, albeit with
some significant additions of dense connections and splitting the
output into additive and multiplicative components of the noise. We
trained our denoiser on a large set of noisy training images generated
from the BSD300 set of natural images by augmenting clean patches
with our estimated range of noise. Our denoiser effectively reduces
noise from the training and testing sets of images and also appears to
work well on our noisy experimental data, retaining many important
physical features. With these results, we should be able to more accu-
rately infer quantitative values from our data, with confidence that
the structures being removed by our denoiser are predominantly
noise.
Although we focus on a specific approximation of the noise
observed on the HGXD images from our experiments in this paper,
our method could easily be adapted for GXD CCD images as well,
and neural networks can, in principle, be trained for any type of
noise. There are some minor downsides to neural network denois-
ing, however—the trained model is not a universal denoiser, and it
will primarily attempt to recognize the level and types of noise it was
trained on, which is likely to reduce its denoising effectiveness on
images that exhibit noise outside of this range. In particular, image
denoising with a model trained on lower noise than the input may
not remove as much noise as it would otherwise, and on the con-
trary, using a model trained on higher noise levels than an input
image may over-filter it, reducing some of the real information.
In the future, it may be possible to further improve the denois-
ing performance for our HED experiments by training on synthetic
images, which incorporate a more physical model of the camera
noise. It should also be possible to improve the denoising model
by changing the model architecture, but there is no simple or
straightforward path for improvement. The simple addition of more
blocks or model parameters to the network is not guaranteed to
improve denoising performance; instead, there is a complicated and
unknown relationship between model size and generalizability. In
tests we have run, we find that adding more blocks tends to reduce
the generalizability of the model to data, in the form of additional
blur to the denoised images. Conversely, with fewer blocks, the net-
work tends to hallucinate more connected features from the noise,
similar to reducing the Poisson noise in training as in Fig. 10. Despite
the above downsides, neural network models are an attractive option
for denoising a wide range of data that could be put to broader use.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Los Alamos National Laboratory is operated by Triad
National Security, LLC for the National Nuclear Security Admin-
istration of U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No.
89233218CNA000001.
AUTHOR DECLARATIONS
Conflict of Interest
The authors have no conflicts to disclose.
Author Contributions
Joseph M. Levesque: Writing – original draft (lead); Writing –
review & editing (lead). Elizabeth C. Merritt: Writing – original
draft (supporting); Writing – review & editing (supporting). Kirk
A. Flippo: Writing – original draft (supporting); Writing – review
& editing (supporting). Alexander M. Rasmus: Writing – original
draft (supporting); Writing – review & editing (supporting). Forrest
W. Doss: Writing – review & editing (supporting).
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 95, 063508 (2024); doi: 10.1063/5.0207005
95, 063508-11
© Author(s) 2024
 14 October 2024 14:30:48
