Review of
Scientific Instruments
ARTICLE
pubs.aip.org/aip/rsi
FIG. 3. Illustration of our denoising neural network architecture. The network takes as input a noisy image of any size and generates an additive and multiplicative component,
which produces the denoised image when applied to the input noisy image. The architecture of our denoising model is closely based on the DenseNet model of Huang et al.,6
but adapted to denoising. The first layers of the network convert the noisy input into 64 feature maps by a 7 × 7 convolution layer, to which a leaky ReLU activation layer (of
negative slope 0.2) is applied. The network then uses six dense blocks (shown at bottom), of which each comprises eight concatenation skip blocks and a transition layer.
Each concatenation block applies a 2D batch norm to the input, followed by a leaky ReLU activation function and a 3 × 3 convolution layer with 16 feature maps. The output
of each layer is the concatenation of the feature maps from the convolution layer with the input, growing the number of feature maps by 16 at each iteration. After the eight
concatenation blocks, the number of feature maps is reduced back to 64 by the transition layer consisting of a 2D batch norm, leaky ReLU, and a 3 × 3 convolution. Following
the dense blocks, the final step of the network is to convert the many feature maps into the 2D additive and multiplicative components of the denoising process. The denoised
image is generated as Idenoised = (Inoisy + outadditive) × outmult.
Poisson noise and the Gaussian blur. In practice, this combined
approach greatly improves model performance for our noise when
compared to using only an additive component. The model out-
puts are bounded by a Sigmoid activation function and scaled, with
the multiplicative output being limited to the range {0, 10} and the
additive component to {−0.5, 0.5} rather than being unbounded.
These bounds are appropriate because our network is designed to
take input normalized between 0 and 1. In addition, the bounded
outputs better enforce the restriction that the output should be sim-
ilar to the input, resulting in faster training and reduced variation in
performance during training.
B. Training
After the architecture, the most important aspect of any neu-
ral network model is the training set, because any network can
only be as good as the architecture and training set allow. At the
most basic level, training consists of giving the network a normal-
ized noisy image as an input, creating the denoised image from the
output, and calculating the mean-square error (MSE) loss by com-
paring the final denoised image against the known clean image. In
the most common denoising schemes, it has generally been suffi-
cient to use sets of natural images, which are then corrupted with
the desired level of noise. For scientific analysis, it is also common
to have a set of simulated data that resemble the real data and are
corrupted by whatever processes are expected to physically occur.
However, aside from the example we use later for testing purposes,
we do not have sufficient simulated data to use as a training set. In
addition, training on simulated images of the full experimental sys-
tem could introduce unwanted bias and reduce generalizability of
a denoiser model in that it might cause the model to expect cer-
tain features to be present. We find that, for our purposes, it is not
necessary to train the network on a simulated image set that resem-
bles the data. Instead, what is more important is that the network is
trained on the types of noise we encounter in the data, regardless of
the underlying image. As such, our training set is derived from the
200 natural images of the training set in the Berkeley Segmentation
Dataset 30025 (BSD300) image database, and the 100 images of the
testing set are used for testing model performance. From the train-
ing set images, we generate our own training sets of synthetic noisy
images each with multiple instances of the desired additive noise,
Poisson noise, and Gaussian blur within the range of noise estimated
from Fig. 2.
The natural images are further made sufficient for training by
splitting each training image into smaller patches and training the
model on these patches. By using smaller patches, we are essen-
tially increasing the number of images in the training set and likely
improve performance on full images not found in this set by train-
ing the model on more small-scale patterns. The patches can be of
any size, but we have found the best results with patches of size
50 × 50 pixels and larger. Training on larger patches can improve
the denoising performance by giving access to more large-scale
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 95, 063508 (2024); doi: 10.1063/5.0207005
95, 063508-5
© Author(s) 2024
 14 October 2024 14:30:48
