Review of
Scientific Instruments
ARTICLE
pubs.aip.org/aip/rsi
form of noise. Instead, we estimate an approximate range of possible
noise as a combination of Poisson and additive white Gaussian noise
(AWGN). The noise in these images is not pixel-scale, so a Gaussian
blur with σ = 1 must be applied to mimic the spatial extent of the
noise.
Within each box (normalized to the maximum of each image)
the initial, unblurred, pixel-level noise is estimated as a Poisson dis-
tribution about the mean of that box, with an added 5% AWGN. To
fit the noise, we create a synthetic noise distribution by first initializ-
ing a 2D map of pixels, which are set to the mean of the data box. The
Poisson noise is then applied by scaling the map up by the proposed
λ (essentially, the maximum λ for a signal level of 1) and applying
a Poisson distribution at each pixel. The noisy map is then scaled
back down by the chosen λ, which sets the mean back to the initially
applied mean and the variance to that mean divided by λ. The 5%
AWGN is applied to the rescaled map, and then, the Gaussian blur
is applied. The normalized intensity distributions of the boxes are
shown in the plots on the right of Fig. 2, with the estimated noise
distributions overlaid in dashed lines. The lower-intensity regions of
boxes 1a and 1d are estimated to have an effective Poisson λ = 10,
and the higher-intensity regions 1b and 1c have λ ≈5. For N190923-
001 strip 2, the noise in boxes 2a, 2b, and 2d can be approximated
with λ = 10, and in box 2c with λ = 20. This range of noise remains
mostly consistent for all images with good signal. Interestingly, there
seems to be greater noise in the regions of higher intensity, unlike
what we would expect from pure Poisson noise. Because the noise
is observed to have a different character in different regions of the
image, we seek to create a denoiser that applies to the range of
estimated noise in our data.
III. DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK
DENOISING
In this section, we describe our neural network denoising
model, its architecture, how it is trained, and its performance on
a test set of synthetic noisy images. The Denoising Convolutional
Neural Network (DnCNN) approach presented by Zhang et al.8
showed that convolutional neural networks, when trained prop-
erly, are able to regularly outperform other methods for image
reconstruction (i.e., denoising) tasks. In addition, some advances in
network architecture have been proposed since the original DnCNN,
which we incorporate into our models. In particular, we apply the
concatenation of feature maps presented in the DenseNet by Huang
et al.6 to our denoising model. Following their results, we apply
neural network denoising to the data x-ray images from our exper-
iments, something that has not yet been reported for this type
of imaging system. Pre-trained denoising models using DnCNN
(and other models) are available, but we cannot directly apply
such models and expect good performance because most models
(including DnCNN) are only trained on additive Gaussian noise.
We create new neural network denoising models with the modified
DenseNet network architecture, trained on the range of estimated
noise distributions from our data images.
A. Network architecture
The fundamental blocks of the DnCNN proposed by Zhang
et al.8 use 3 × 3 convolutional layers with 64 learned filters per
layer, followed by batch normalization,20 which reduces variance
among the images simultaneously passed to the network, and a
Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation function, which modifies
all positive values by a set multiplicative factor and sets negative
values to 0. The DnCNN networks of Zhang et al.8 were between
16 and 20 layers deep, depending on the image reconstruction
task, and produced good results on blind image denoising for
AWGN up to 20%. Our denoising model maintains the general ideas
from the DnCNN denoiser of Zhang et al.8 but incorporates the
recent work of dense connections by Huang et al.6 The DenseNet
architecture of Huang et al.6 uses blocks in which the results
from successive convolutional layers are concatenated—called a
dense connection or a concatenated skip connection—rather than
added together as with additive skip or residual connections,3
which increase the effective receptive field of the network—the
length scale at which patterns can be recognized—with fewer
layers. DenseNets were originally applied to image classification
problems, but by changing the transition layers—which reduce
model complexity between blocks—to reduce the number of fea-
ture maps while retaining the image size instead of reducing the
image dimensionality, this architecture is easily translated to image
denoising.
Our proposed denoising network is shown in Fig. 3. The net-
work starts with a 7 × 7 convolutional layer to produce 64 feature
maps from the noisy input image, followed by a leaky ReLU activa-
tion function21–23 with a negative slope of −0.2, rather than setting
negative values to 0. The initial 7 × 7 convolutional size provides a
relatively large, but not computationally intensive, receptive field to
determine features in the image to start.6,24 These initialization lay-
ers are then followed by six dense blocks. Each dense block uses eight
successive concatenation skip blocks, with each of these sub-blocks
consisting of a 2D batch normalization followed by a leaky ReLU
activation function and a 2D 3 × 3 convolutional layer with 16 out-
put channels. The results from each of these blocks are concatenated
with the prior input at each step, increasing the size of the input to
the next concatenation block by 16 channels. After the concatena-
tion blocks, another series of a 2D batch normalization, leaky ReLU,
and 2D convolution make up the transition layer, which reduces the
model complexity by reducing the number of channels to 64 + 16i,
where i is the index of the dense block, so the number of feature maps
increases by 16 after each block. After the final dense block, the fea-
ture maps undergo another 2D batch norm and leaky ReLU layer
and are reduced to two output maps by a final 3 × 3 convolutional
layer. The two output feature maps are envisioned as an additive and
multiplicative component of the noise.
The DnCNN model of Zhang et al.8 outputs a single additive
residual of the noise, which is then added to the noisy image to pro-
duce the denoised image. In general, computing the residual appears
to be superior to trying to output the denoised image directly, as
the model enforces that the noise the network recognizes must be
relatively minimal. However, we modified the residual approach, so
the network output provides two maps, a multiplicative and additive
component of the noise, and the final denoised image is computed
as Idenoised = (Inoisy + outadditive) × outmultiplicative. We take this multi-
component approach because we assumed that the general noise
in our images is a combination of the multiplicative Poisson noise,
additive noise, and a Gaussian blur. The multiplicative component
should allow the model to better address both the signal-dependent
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 95, 063508 (2024); doi: 10.1063/5.0207005
95, 063508-4
© Author(s) 2024
 14 October 2024 14:30:48
