Review of
Scientific Instruments
ARTICLE
pubs.aip.org/aip/rsi
of noise, which we estimated from the data, and is applicable to a
range of noise without the need for additional hyperparameters. The
hyperparameters of our model are essentially the noise we imparted
on the training set. In addition, the noise we impart on this train-
ing set is not guaranteed to be an accurate representation of the real
noise. If the noise of a system falls outside of what we use in our
training set, it is relatively simple to train a new model using a new
noise model using the same architecture and methodology we have
presented.
IV. APPLICATION TO DATA IMAGES
Figure 9 shows the results of our trained denoiser model on
the data images previously shown in Fig. 2. Note that the trained
denoising model is fully self-contained and it does not require any
additional hyperparameters in application, as these are determined
by the training process. The NN denoiser produces images that
retain much of the internal structure of the opaque layer while signif-
icantly smoothing the signal in the surrounding foam regions. The
blue boxes show how the denoiser performs on the opaque tracer
layer, where much of the data analysis is focused. In the N180724-
001 image in particular, much of the small-scale noise has been
reduced, and the perturbations on the trailing side are much clearer.
The noise is also noticeably reduced in the layer of the N190923-001
image, but features appear blurrier. Additional blurring on the bot-
tom image is also apparent when comparing the red boxes that show
the gold fiducial grid. The blurring between images can be explained
by the fact that the second image is a strip 2 image, taken 4.5 ns
after strip 1, allowing much more time for the high-Z materials to
absorb x rays from the continuous backlighter drive. In addition, the
edges around the fiducial teeth at the top and bottom and around
the sides of the beryllium window are sharpened, and the apparent
additive noise in the low-intensity regions of the images is signifi-
cantly reduced. The subtractive residual of the NN denoised image
from the noisy data image shows that the estimated noise resem-
bles a continuous 2D Gaussian process throughout, modified only
by changes in the local intensity while remaining of the same general
character.
We show the results of three models trained with different lev-
els of Poisson noise on the data images in Fig. 10. Similar to our
comparison on synthetic noise in Fig. 7, the differences between
the higher noise λ ∈[10, 100] and λ ∈[5, 50] models are negligible.
However, in the lower noise λ ∈[20, 100] model, there are significant
artifacts throughout. These kinds of artifacts tend to occur when the
FIG. 10. Comparison of denoising results on data images using the same model architecture but trained on different levels of Poisson noise. In general, training on lower
levels of noise produces increased hallucination of connected structures from the noise. Models trained on higher levels of noise produce smoother images but may introduce
additional levels of blur on features that can be seen by eye.
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 95, 063508 (2024); doi: 10.1063/5.0207005
95, 063508-10
© Author(s) 2024
 14 October 2024 14:30:48
