Review of
Scientific Instruments
ARTICLE
pubs.aip.org/aip/rsi
the backlighter also affects the level of Poisson noise observed across
the image. In addition, the interaction of the lasers with the plasma
around the backlighter source can generate a lesser amount of
higher-energy x-rays, which produce much higher, localized signal
on the detector. The higher-energy x-ray strikes can be considered
as a mostly additive noise on top of the main signal. In addition,
there is an additive or speckle component seen on the images, with
single hits on the detector showing up even in regions of very low
transmission. The detector effects also include blurring, as from pin-
hole apertures, the spread of electrons across an MCP gap, and signal
bleeding at the phosphor and the detector itself. Among the two
cameras, the GXD typically has a finer resolution than the HGXD
but has an additional hexagonal pattern of dark pixels imposed by
the extended fiber optics. The HGXD has a larger gap between the
MCP and the phosphor, which may increase the blur, and the film
grain and scanner can add additional artifacts to the image.
The listed noise contributions can be considered explicitly to
create a forward model, as explored by Trosseille et al.,19 but for
simplicity, we assume that the structure of the noise can be con-
densed into a combination of Poisson noise, additive noise, and a
Gaussian blur, applied in that order. Ideally, we want a denoising
method that preferentially removes noise while retaining important
physical properties, but the combination of noise sources on these
images makes recovering information from the images difficult.
Inferences we make from these noisy images may be highly sensi-
tive to the method of denoising or post-processing. Therefore, we
want a denoiser that is able to handle the expected noise, which we
address with a neural network model, and to have some understand-
ing of how our chosen denoiser affects the underlying information
as well.
Because we have an extensive dataset using the same nominal
parameters, we can use the data to estimate the type of noise and
power in these images. Figure 2 displays two representative HGXD
x-ray images from our dataset, in which the structured high-opacity
region in the center of each image is the thin tracer layer. For these
images, we know that density fluctuations in the regions of heated
and ionized foam on either side of the opaque tracer should be too
small to create any significant change in opacity when integrating
across the tube. Therefore, we assume that the fluctuations in sig-
nal intensity within small patches of the image should primarily
correspond to noise.
We outline four regions with boxes on each image of Fig. 2,
1a–1d for shot N180724-001 on top, and 2a–2d for N190923-001
on bottom. The frames we show are 900 × 720 pixels surrounding
the data, which are selected from larger images. Boxes a and d on
each image are outside of the beryllium window and have lower
transmission than boxes b and c, which are inside the window. We
use the distribution of signals within each box to estimate the noise
on these images. Note that we cannot exactly reproduce the noise
from images alone, due to the non-uniqueness associated with any
FIG. 2. X-ray images from the NIF MShock campaign, with shot designation and HGXD strip number shown. The structured region of low transmission toward the center
of the images is the thin tracer layer. The edges of the beryllium window are visible on the left and right, where the transmission suddenly decreases. Spatial fiducial teeth
(tantalum) are seen at the top and bottom of the image, with a gold grid fiducial at the top right. The outlined boxes (1a–1d) and (2a–2d) in these images are small regions over
which the transmission is expected to be mostly uniform, so fluctuations are assumed to be due to noise. The plots on the right show the normalized intensity distributions of
the boxes, with synthetic noise distributions overlaid.
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 95, 063508 (2024); doi: 10.1063/5.0207005
95, 063508-3
© Author(s) 2024
 14 October 2024 14:30:48
